# Documentation Community Team Meeting (December 2022)

- **Date:** 2022-12-05
- **Time:** [20:00 UTC](https://arewemeetingyet.com/UTC/2022-12-05/20:00/Docs%20Meeting) 
- **This HackMD:** https://hackmd.io/@encukou/pydocswg1
- [**Discourse thread**](https://discuss.python.org/t/21578)
- **Calendar event:** (send your e-mail to Mariatta for an invitation)
- **How to participate:**
  -  Go to [Google Meet](https://meet.google.com/dii-qrzf-wkw) and ask to be let in.
  -  To edit notes, click the ‚Äúpencil‚Äù or ‚Äúsplit view‚Äù button on the [hackMD document](https://hackmd.io/@encukou/pydocswg1). You need to log in (e.g. with a GitHub account).

By participating in this meeting, you are agreeing to abide by and uphold the [PSF Code of Conduct](https://www.python.org/psf/codeofconduct/).
Please take a second to read through it!

## Roll call

- Mariatta / `@mariatta`
- Petr / `@encukou`
- Ezio / `@ezio-melotti`
- Hugo van Kemenade / `@hugovk`
- CAM / `@CAM-Gerlach`
- Jim DeLaHunt / `@JDLH`


## Reports and celebrations

> This is a place to make announcements (without a need for discussion). This is also a great place to give shout-outs to contributors! We'll read through these at the beginning of the meeting.

- Hugo's promotion to Core Developer! üéä
- @JDLH: A [packaging] docs issue I filed has been fixed, I feel like I made a (small) contribution. [*No clear list of permitted keys in "Declaring project metadata" specification* issue #1101](https://github.com/pypa/packaging.python.org/issues/1101), fixed by Brett Cannon in [PR #1168](https://github.com/pypa/packaging.python.org/pull/1168).

## Discussion

### Python Project Documentation

*Relating to `docs.python.org`, `peps.python.org`, `devguide.python.org`, &c.*

* (Hugo) [Add release cycle chart to docs](https://github.com/python/docs-community/issues/67):
  * [CSV PR](https://github.com/python/devguide/pull/884) was merged
  * [charts PR](https://github.com/python/devguide/pull/988) ready for review -> merged during the meeting :rocket:
  * [demo](https://cpython-devguide--988.org.readthedocs.build/versions/#python-release-cycle)
  * Followup: @CAM-Gerlach opened devguide issues for adding the additional development phase transition dates [python/devguide#998](https://github.com/python/devguide/issues/998) & a table of individual minor versions [python/devguide#999](https://github.com/python/devguide/issues/999)
  * Followup: Hugo will check with it no JavaScript, and the remote hosting of https://unpkg.com/mermaid/dist/mermaid.min.js in case it goes down
    * -> No JS PR: https://github.com/python/devguide/pull/997

* https://packaging.python.org/en/latest/glossary/
  * @CAM-Gerlach to improve the glossary. It can then be linked or copied to CPython docs.

### PEP Workflow

* [PEP 1 rewrite?](https://discuss.python.org/t/21068/26)
  * It was generally agreed that PEP 1 (and PEP 12) could use significant re-organization and trimming.
  * Petr suggests moving the author-facing help out of PEP 1/to the devguide
  * CAM mentions [python/peps#2337](https://github.com/python/peps/issues/2337) which proposes referencing the Sphinx reST primer instead of duplicating information there in PEP 12 and consolidating normative process guidance in PEP 1 and author-facing info in PEP 12/the devguide
  * @CAM-Gerlach will open a PR implementing that first step, linking the Sphinx reST primer in PEP 12 instead of duplicating that information
  * CAM also mentions the devguide's reST primer is essentially just a less-up-to-date copy of the Sphinx one; it should be revised to link to it and focus on CPython-specific guidance. This issue was already open as [python/docs-community#57](https://github.com/python/docs-community/issues/57), which was moved to [python/devguide#1000](https://github.com/python/devguide/issues/1000), where @CAM-Gerlach will work on it
* Final PEPs and the canonical docs banner link
  * [python/peps#2719](https://github.com/python/peps/issues/2719) will improve the existing banners directing users to the canonical docs for Final PEPs added in [python/peps#2702](https://github.com/python/peps/pull/2702) to be sticky at the top; @CAM-Gerlach to submit PR
  * We can start going through Final PEPs and systemically marking them with the new banner as appropriate
  * @CAM-Gerlach will submit PRs for [python/peps#2872](https://github.com/python/peps/issues/2872) to mark old implemented Accepted PEPs as Final, and will add banner in the process
  * We might need a checklist for marking PEPs Final
    * e.g.: is it documented outside the PEP? Add a note?
   * @CAM-Gerlach will open an issue to discuss adding checklists for new, Approved/Rejected and Final PEPs (opened as [python/peps#2937](https://github.com/python/peps/issues/2937))
* Status for PEP 659?
  * @CAM-Gerlach will open issue proposing a list of obselete PEPs to the SC to be formally rejected
  * We may need an obselete status?

### Improve SEO for CPython docs

* (Hugo) OpenGraph metadata PRs:

  * devguide: [merged](https://github.com/python/devguide/pull/953), increases Google's SEO score [91->100](https://github.com/python/devguide/pull/953#issuecomment-1332183148)
  * CPython: [ready for review](https://github.com/python/cpython/pull/99931), increases Google's SEO score [~66->91](https://github.com/python/cpython/pull/99931) -> approved during and merged after the meeting :rocket:
  * Followup: tell Marc-Andr√© about use of logo without font
  * PEPs: TODO

## Next meeting

The docs team meets on the first Monday of every month.
* First Monday of January 2023 is 2 Jan 2023. Will we all be ~~recovered from our New Year's celebrations~~ back at Python work and ready to meet on that date?
* January 9 2023 instead.

We have a recurring Google Calendar event for the meeting.
Let Mariatta know your email address and she can invite you.
