# Documentation Community Team Meeting (September 12, 2022)


## Roll call

(Name / `@GitHubUsername`)

- Petr Viktorin / `@encukou`
- Ezio Melotti / `@ezio-melotti`
- Mariatta / `@mariatta`
- Ned Batchelder / `@nedbat`
- C.A.M. Gerlach / `@CAM-Gerlach`


## Reports and celebrations

- We will be publishing the Workshop videos to YouTube soon. Stay tuned for
  announcement and emails.

- Ee is back, so several things should get unblocked in the coming weeks,
  like the YouTube uploads or docs preview on Netlify

- What's New editing (**CAM**)
  - Major PEP sized items all added except for PEP 670
  - First set of copyedit PRs waiting on review/merge; please help!
  - Refs from summary to body content will be PRed very soon
  - Remaining items will be submitted as PRs soon(â„¢)
  - See [python/cpython#95913](https://github.com/python/cpython/issues/95913) and [python/cpython#95914](https://github.com/python/cpython/issues/95914)

- "Past Action Item": Try building automation to prevent link breakage using the `.inv` file
  - Moving whole pages could be handled by [sphinxext-rediraffe](https://sphinxext-rediraffe.readthedocs.io/)
    like in the devguide
  - Moving fragments (the `#` part of URLs, like headings and reference entries)
    is not handled well
    - Intersphinx links work well for reference entries, but many external
      links don't come form Sphinx
  - Fixing Sphinx roles might break Intersphinx, depending on how the URL
    is generated

- Fixing bad Sphinx links
  - Big project, but could be good for newer contributors
  - **Petr** might have a GH Actions-based per-document check for PRs
  - Some links, e.g. in old What's New, might need to stay broken.
    Silencing errors with `!` doesn't always work

- Running linkcheck regularly (on devguide?)
  - Seems like a good idea, just needs someone to implement
    (**Ezio**, or **CAM** if needed)
  - See [python/devguide#681](https://github.com/python/devguide/issues/681) and [python/devguide#917](https://github.com/python/devguide/issues/917)

### 'Internal' items

*For and about the Community or Working Group*

- Future meeting schedule
  - Best time seems to be 19:30 - 20:30 UTC, 1.5 hours earlier than current
  - **Petr** will ask on Discord if anyone objects
