# Documentation Community Team Meeting (October 2023)

- **Date:** 2023-10-03
- **Time:** [19:00 UTC](https://arewemeetingyet.com/UTC/2023-10-03/19:00/Docs%20Meeting)
- **This HackMD:** https://hackmd.io/@encukou/pydocswg1
- [**Discourse thread**](https://discuss.python.org/t/34318) (for October)
- [**Meeting reports**](https://docs-community.readthedocs.io/en/latest/monthly-meeting/) (the latest one might be an [**unmerged PR**](https://github.com/python/docs-community/pulls))
- **Calendar event:** (send your e-mail to Mariatta for an invitation)
- **How to participate:**
  -  Go to [Google Meet](https://meet.google.com/dii-qrzf-wkw) and ask to be let in.
  -  To edit notes, click the “pencil” or “split view” button on the [HackMD document](https://hackmd.io/@encukou/pydocswg1). You need to log in (e.g. with a GitHub account).

By participating in this meeting, you are agreeing to abide by and uphold the [PSF Code of Conduct](https://www.python.org/psf/codeofconduct/).
Please take a second to read through it!


## Roll call

(Name / `@GitHubUsername` *[/ Discord, if different]*)
- Hugo van Kemenade / `@hugovk`
- Petr Viktorin / `@encukou`
- Ned Batchelder / `@nedbat`
- Daniele Procida / `@evildmp`
- Mariatta / `@mariatta`
- Marcus Sherman / `@betteridiot`
- Adam T / `@AA-Turner`
- Ryan Duve / `@ryan-duve`
- CAM Gerlach / `@CAM-Gerlach`
- Ege Akman / `@egeakman`
- Carol Willing / `@willingc` / `carolwilling`


## Reports and celebrations

- Python 3.12.0 has been released:
  - [Python 3.12.0 (final) is here](https://discuss.python.org/t/35186)
  - [Python Release Python 3.12.0 | Python.org](https://www.python.org/downloads/release/python-3120/)
  - [What’s New In Python 3.12 — Python 3.12.0 documentation](https://docs.python.org/3.12/whatsnew/3.12.html)
- [Hugo] python-docs-theme:
  - [python-docs-theme 2023.8 has been released](https://pypi.org/project/python-docs-theme/2023.8/)
  - Releasing via Trusted Publishers has been set up on PyPI: [python/python-docs-theme#148](https://github.com/python/python-docs-theme/pull/148)
- [Adam] [Editorial work on *What's New in Python 3.12*](https://docs.python.org/3.12/whatsnew/3.12.html)
- [Adam] Work on improving [Sphinx's documentation](https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master):
  - [New pages for the first-party Domains](https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/usage/domains/)
  - [Improved documentation for *make-mode*](https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/man/sphinx-build.html#options)
  - [A quick reference for the most common builders](https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/usage/builders/index.html)
- [Adam] [Almost every reference to Distutils has been removed or replaced in Python 3.12's documentation](https://github.com/python/cpython/issues/92584). Though [some](https://docs.python.org/dev/search.html?q=distutils) remain!
- [Mariatta] [PEP Talk video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7OHGugQkYzA) at North Bay Python + this Saturday at [PyGotham](https://2023.pygotham.tv/)
- [CAM] [Free Google online technical/docs writing workshops](https://developers.google.com/tech-writing/announcements), first one tomorrow at 16:30 UTC; thanks Hugo for sharing it! Offline bit short but useful, and online sounds very hands on and interactive learning, which should be fun. CAM will be there and hopes you will too.
- [Petr] Thanks Hugo for the announcement, Ege for the PR and Adam for cleaning the HackMD pad!


## Discussion

- [Adam] Frequency of rebuilds of [`docs.python.org/3/`](https://docs.python.org/3/): [python/docsbuild-scripts#163](https://github.com/python/docsbuild-scripts/issues/163)
  - Is it OK for the PDFs to lag behind the HTML pages?
  - We could build English HTML every 4-6 hours but translations & PDFs only daily.
  - We don't know how long the build takes.
  - Could we move to Read the Docs?
  - Perhaps redirect 404s for archives that aren't build yet to earlier versions: could `https://docs.python.org/3.11/archives/python-3.11.999-docs-pdf-letter.zip` serve HTML that explains things and links to `https://docs.python.org/3.11/archives/` ?
  - Action: Adam to write up something & ask Julien.
- [Hugo] Adopting opengraph preview images for d.p.o: [python/docsbuild-scripts#147](https://github.com/python/docsbuild-scripts/issues/147)
- [Adam] Shutting down [`docs@python.org`](https://mail.python.org/archives/list/docs@python.org/latest)
  - Action: Petr to think about / redirect posts to GH Issues.
- [Mariatta/Joanna/Ned] [PEP for Python Editorial Board](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1IDaf87xtuKQ9txA6XUS-kQbgmLseUrOD1EBwl5PheSw/edit?usp=sharing)
- [Ege] What is the status of "[analysing docs.python.org using Google Search Console](https://github.com/python/docs-community/issues/64)"?
  - Would have been nice to have, but doesn't look feasible for now. Hopefully, it will be discussed along with *Plausible hosting*.
  - We can look into alternatives, such as [Google LightHouse](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/lighthouse/overview/).
- [Ege/Hugo/Maciej/CAM] Plausible & Weblate hosting updates (response from the PSF?)
  - [CAM] Emailed Deb a couple weeks ago with the summary of our consensus on the last meeting, but still waiting (again :( ) on a reply.


## Next meeting

The docs team generally meets on the first Tuesday of every month around 19:00-ish UTC.

We have a recurring Google Calendar event for the meeting.
Let Mariatta know your email address and she can invite you.
