# Documentation Community Team Meeting (February 2023)

- **Date:** 2023-02-06
- **Time:** [20:00 UTC](https://arewemeetingyet.com/UTC/2023-01-09/20:00/Docs%20Meeting)
- **This HackMD:** https://hackmd.io/@encukou/pydocswg1
- [**Discourse thread**](https://discuss.python.org/t/documentation-community-meeting-february-6-2023/23320) (for February)
- [**January meeting's report**](https://docs-community.readthedocs.io/en/latest/monthly-meeting/2023-01.html)
- **Calendar event:** (send your e-mail to Mariatta for an invitation)
- **How to participate:**
  -  Go to [Google Meet](https://meet.google.com/dii-qrzf-wkw) and ask to be let in.
  -  To edit notes, click the “pencil” or “split view” button on the [HackMD document](https://hackmd.io/@encukou/pydocswg1). You need to log in (e.g. with a GitHub account).

By participating in this meeting, you are agreeing to abide by and uphold the [PSF Code of Conduct](https://www.python.org/psf/codeofconduct/).
Please take a second to read through it!

## Roll call

- Mariatta `@mariatta`
- Petr `@encukou`
- Erlend `@erlend-aasland`
- Hugo `@hugovk`
- Ezio `@ezio-melotti`
- CAM `@cam-gerlach`
- Jim DeLaHunt `@JDLH`


## Reports and celebrations

> 60 second updates on things you have been up to, questions you have, or developments you think people should know about. Please add yourself, and if you do not have an update to share, you can pass.

> This is a place to make announcements (without a need for discussion). This is also a great place to give shout-outs to contributors! We'll read through these at the beginning of the meeting.

* devguide: Release cycle chart generated directly as SVG [python/devguide#1034](https://github.com/python/devguide/pull/1034)

* PEP Pull Request templates are live. The feature needs some more polish from GitHub's side to be fully useful

* CAM's script for keeping What's New versions in sync is almost ready!

* PEPs infra: relative links to ease development [#2972](https://github.com/python/peps/pull/2972), remove feedgen/lxml dependency to test Python 3.12-dev [#2973], use dark grey instead of dark green for dark theme background [#2977], use consistent 'make html' and 'make dirhtml' [#2968] and 'make htmlview'

* Pradyun has a PR, [python/peps#2992](https://github.com/python/peps/pull/2992) on review to make the banners sticky; should be almost ready to go pending a few minor tweaks to browser-specific issues

* PEPs topic PRs: PEP 1 and 12: Document Topic header [#2995], Add a governance topic [#2993], PEP 404: Add Python 2.8 to Release PEPs topic [#2986]

  [#2972]: https://github.com/python/peps/pull/2972
  [#2973]: https://github.com/python/peps/pull/2973
  [#2977]: https://github.com/python/peps/pull/2977
  [#2968]: https://github.com/python/peps/pull/2968
  [#2995]: https://github.com/python/peps/pull/2995
  [#2993]: https://github.com/python/peps/pull/2993
  [#2986]: https://github.com/python/peps/pull/2986




## Discussion

### 'Internal' items

*For and about the Community or Working Group*

- Trouble installing Python: https://mail.python.org/archives/list/docs@python.org/thread/I7JDNUYWIZ3QVY33IDYWFKDTZMIPIVNS/
  - https://docs.python.org/3/using/mac.html#running-scripts-with-a-gui

- Overhaul Building the Documentation section for clarity
  - https://github.com/python/devguide/pull/1038

- [python/devguide#1020](https://github.com/python/devguide/issues/1020): Function signatures in docs (positional-only markers, defaults, `[]` syntax)
  - How discoverable is the `[]` syntax to today's devs?

- The docs mailing list (docs@python.org)
    - This is linked from docs.python.org from "report a bug" section https://docs.python.org/3/bugs.html#documentation-bugs
    - [python/devguide#1025](https://github.com/python/devguide/pull/1025)
    - **Mariatta** file an issue or PR for Python docs
      - [Issue](https://github.com/python/cpython/issues/101616), [PR](https://github.com/python/cpython/pull/101617)

* Release cycle chart in the Devguide
  * [python/devguide#1034](https://github.com/python/devguide/pull/1034) merged!
  * Possible next steps:
    * Use inline CSS
    * Put in individual release dates

* draft: Previews in pull requests #105 - need to set up RTD
https://github.com/python/python-docs-theme/pull/105
  * **Mariatta** to set up an organization account on Read the Docs


### Python Project Documentation

*Relating to `docs.python.org`, `peps.python.org`, `devguide.python.org`, etc.*

* https://packaging.python.org/en/latest/glossary/
  * @CAM-Gerlach to improve the glossary. It can then be linked or copied to CPython docs.
  * improved glossary is part of PEP 639

### Improve SEO for CPython docs

* (Hugo) OpenGraph metadata PRs:

  * About the extension creating social media cards, asked Ee and Julien about deploying all the images in https://github.com/python/docsbuild-scripts/issues/147
  * Hugo: I suggest we disable the images when available, then enable after testing the points raised in the issue (only enable for web docs, check translations, don't include in archives)

### PEPs styling

* (Hugo) I find the Google font, small size and tight spacing hard to read. The Google font loading causes a big initial layout shift. Trying it out with default fonts and spacing feels more readable, faster loads.
  * https://hugovk-peps.readthedocs.io/en/sfs/pep-0703/
  * https://peps.python.org/pep-0703/
  * Originally discussed https://discuss.python.org/t/styling-of-peps/13270/34

* CPython docs styling is waiting for Lutra docs

### PEP Workflow

* [PEP 1 rewrite?](https://discuss.python.org/t/21068/26)
* Final PEPs and the canonical docs banner link: in PR [python/peps#2992](https://github.com/python/peps/pull/2992)
* Status for PEP 659 and other obsolete PEPs?


## Next meeting

The docs team generally meets on the first Monday of every month.

We have a recurring Google Calendar event for the meeting.
Let Mariatta know your email address and she can invite you.
