# Documentation Community Team Meeting (November 2023)

- **Date:** 2023-11-07
- **Time:** [20:00 UTC](https://arewemeetingyet.com/UTC/2023-11-07/20:00/Docs%20Meeting)
- **This HackMD:** [https://hackmd.io/@encukou/pydocswg1](https://hackmd.io/@encukou/pydocswg1)
- [**Discourse thread**](https://discuss.python.org/t/documentation-community-meeting-november-7-2023/38032) (for November)
- [**Meeting reports**](https://docs-community.readthedocs.io/en/latest/monthly-meeting/) (the latest one might be an [**unmerged PR**](https://github.com/python/docs-community/pulls))
- **Calendar event:** (send your e-mail to Mariatta for an invitation)
- **How to participate:**
  -  Go to [Google Meet](https://meet.google.com/dii-qrzf-wkw) and ask to be let in.
  -  To edit notes, click the “pencil” or “split view” button on the [HackMD document](https://hackmd.io/@encukou/pydocswg1). You need to log in (e.g. with a GitHub account).

By participating in this meeting, you are agreeing to abide by and uphold the [PSF Code of Conduct](https://www.python.org/psf/codeofconduct/).
Please take a second to read through it!


## Roll call

(Name / `@GitHubUsername` *[/ Discord, if different]*)
- Marcus Sherman / `@betteridiot`
- Petr Viktorin  / `@encukou`
- Ned Batchelder / `@nedbat`
- Ege Akman / `@egeakman`
- Ezio Melotti / `@ezio-melotti`
- Hugo van Kemenade / `@hugovk`
- Usman Akinyemi / `@Unique_Usman`
- Blaise Pabon / `@blaisep` / `BlaisePabon`
- Ryan Duve / `@ryan-duve`
- Pradyun Gedam / `@pradyunsg`


## Reports and celebrations

- [PEP 732](https://peps.python.org/pep-0732/) "The Python Documentation Editorial Board" draft has been published:
  - [Discourse thread](https://discuss.python.org/t/pep-732-the-python-documentation-editorial-board/36710)
  - Establishes the docs Editorial Board, and the relationship to the docs community
  - The idea is that the board can make larger, far-reaching decisions than just people sending PRs
  - Joanna is the author, she used to work at Real Python
  - How do you join the group? A. It's a small group with appointed members, not like this community.
  - How exactly the decisions will be made is still to be worked out.
  - This (docs community) is called the "working group"

- [Petr] Issues from the docs@python.org were converted to [a list in a GitHub issue](https://github.com/python/cpython/issues/110383)


## Discussion

- [Petr] [Railroad diagrams](https://discuss.python.org/t/36709/20)
  - Next stream: [youtube.com/live/vHn4YqzYlPo](https://youtube.com/live/vHn4YqzYlPo)
  - [A free REPL for learning](https://tabatkins.github.io/railroad-diagrams/generator.html)

- [Ege] Looking for help on [python-docs-bootstrapper](https://github.com/egeakman/python-docs-bootstrapper/issues/8)
  - Need help with:
    - packaging (done thanks to Hugo)

    - CLI enhancements and features
  - If you have some spare time and nothing else to do, feel free to contribute!

- [Adam/Ege/Hugo] Frequency of docs.python.org builds
  - We used to build all translations & versions
    - Now we only build those that have changed, which reduces the build time.
    - There is still room for improvement: [python/docsbuild-scripts#171 (comment)](https://github.com/python/docsbuild-scripts/pull/171#issuecomment-1767764506)

- [Ege/Hugo/CAM] Analytics (Plausible) - CAM sent an e-mail (around late October), no reply yet

- [Usman] As a beginner, what's a good starting point?
  - There are some "easy" issues, although they can occasionally not be actually-easy.
  - Interested in documentation, look at diataxis and make changes?
    - Diataxis is kind of abstract for newcomers.


## Next meeting

The docs team generally meets on the first Tuesday of every month around 20:00-ish UTC.

We have a recurring Google Calendar event for the meeting.
Let Mariatta know your email address and she can invite you.
