# Documentation Community Team Meeting (July 2023)

- **Date:** 2023-07-03
- **Time:** [19:00 UTC](https://arewemeetingyet.com/UTC/2023-07-03/19:00/Docs%20Meeting)
- **This HackMD:** [https://hackmd.io/@encukou/pydocswg1](https://hackmd.io/@encukou/pydocswg1)
- [**Discourse thread**](https://discuss.python.org/t/28736) (for July)
- [**Meeting reports**](https://docs-community.readthedocs.io/en/latest/monthly-meeting/index.html) (the latest one might be an [**unmerged PR**](https://github.com/python/docs-community/pulls))
- **Calendar event:** (send your e-mail to Mariatta for an invitation)
- **How to participate:**
  -  Go to [Google Meet](https://meet.google.com/dii-qrzf-wkw) and ask to be let in.
  -  To edit notes, click the ‚Äúpencil‚Äù or ‚Äúsplit view‚Äù button on the [HackMD document](https://hackmd.io/@encukou/pydocswg1). You need to log in (e.g. with a GitHub account).

By participating in this meeting, you are agreeing to abide by and uphold the [PSF Code of Conduct](https://www.python.org/psf/codeofconduct/).
Please take a second to read through it!


## Roll call

(Name / `@GitHubUsername` / Discord if different)
- Petr Viktorin / `@encukou`
- Ege Akman / `@egeakman`
- Hugo van Kemenade / `@hugovk`
- Marcus Sherman / `@betteridiot`
- CAM / `@CAM-Gerlach`
- Ned / `@nedbat`
- Manuel / `@humitos`


## Discussion

* Thoughts on MDN icons (see e.g. the ToC sidebar for [Document](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Document)), as a compact way to flag API status in overviews?
    * üóëÔ∏è = deprecated
    * ‚ö†Ô∏è = non-standard/implementation-specific
    * üß™ = experimental/unstable

* Programmatic handling of `deprecated-removed`
    * Followup from [soft deprecation discussion](https://discuss.python.org/t/formalize-the-concept-of-soft-deprecation-dont-schedule-removal-in-pep-387-backwards-compatibility-policy/27957/73)
    * MVP should be up by next meeting:
        * A list of everything that's deprecated
        * docs on the directive in the devguide

* Thoughts on putting a translation progress notice in docs pages (for each language)? [python/docsbuild-scripts#148](https://github.com/python/docsbuild-scripts/issues/148)
    * Sounds like a good idea
    * Sphinx issue is open
        * This should be done in Sphinx first - Manuel will look into it ([sphinx-doc/sphinx#11157](https://github.com/sphinx-doc/sphinx/issues/11157))
    * Spanish docs have a [neat progress page](https://python-docs-es.readthedocs.io/es/3.11/progress.html)
        * Should we add it to all translations?


## Next meeting

The docs team generally meets on the first Monday of every month.

We have a recurring Google Calendar event for the meeting.
Let Mariatta know your email address and she can invite you.
