# Documentation Community Team Meeting (June 2023)

- **Date:** 2023-06-05
- **Time:** [19:00 UTC](https://arewemeetingyet.com/UTC/2023-06-05/19:00/Docs%20Meeting) 
- **This HackMD:** https://hackmd.io/@encukou/pydocswg1
- [**Discourse thread**](https://discuss.python.org/t/27334) (for June)
- [**Meeting reports**](https://docs-community.readthedocs.io/en/latest/monthly-meeting/index.html) (the latest one might be an [**unmerged PR**](https://github.com/python/docs-community/pulls))
- **Calendar event:** (send your e-mail to Mariatta for an invitation)
- **How to participate:**
  -  Go to [Google Meet](https://meet.google.com/dii-qrzf-wkw) and ask to be let in.
  -  To edit notes, click the “pencil” or “split view” button on the [HackMD document](https://hackmd.io/@encukou/pydocswg1). You need to log in (e.g. with a GitHub account).

By participating in this meeting, you are agreeing to abide by and uphold the [PSF Code of Conduct](https://www.python.org/psf/codeofconduct/).
Please take a second to read through it!


## Roll call

(Name / `@GitHubUsername` / Discord if different)
- Petr Viktorin / `@encukou`
- Manuel Kaufmann / `@humitos`
- Ege Akman / `@egeakman`
- Daniele / `@DanieleProcida`
- Ned / `@nedbat`
- Yaa / `@YaaNuamah`
- CAM / `@CAM-Gerlach` (everywhere)
- Hugo / `@hugovk`
- Bradley
- Marcus / `@betteridiot`

Regrets:
- Jim DeLaHunt / `@JDLH` (Sorry, I have no deliverables to report to the group, and I am busy with another project this month.)
- Mariatta


## Reports and celebrations

* [CAM and Erlend's PyCon US talk is now up](https://youtu.be/nMekFX2CDVk)
    * CAM also pressented a derived version at his local Huntsville Python Users Group (HSV.py)

* PEPs site updated for better readability and performance: [python/peps#3132](https://github.com/python/peps/pull/3132)

## Discussion

* [PSF elections](https://discuss.python.org/t/psf-board-election-dates-for-2023): do 5h/month for Python? [Self-certify/re-self-certify to vote](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfwWBGkzvkWDZrxW3up_M_B7qgt1IWZlx9KJ0ucLA5WJP1vfA/viewform)
    * Re-do the certification for this year!

* Infra: stats for docs
    * [Demo](https://hugovk-cpython.readthedocs.io/en/plausible/)
    * [Dashboard](https://plausible.io/share/hugovk-cpython.readthedocs.io?auth=XDF9fK3EB2dEHCr4sC9hn)
    * Script in header: [hugovk/cpython#28b2355](https://github.com/hugovk/cpython/commit/28b23555030d58fdb52b74a547cc621c49690de0)
    * [More info](https://plausible.io/self-hosted-web-analytics)

* Dark theme is live on 3.12 and 3.13, should we deploy it to earlier releases?
    * [python/python-docs-theme#44 (comment)](https://github.com/python/python-docs-theme/pull/44#issuecomment-1571331235)

* EuroPython documentation sprint:
    * Would it be a "good fit" for a sprint?
    * How can we organize it?
        * Hugo will organize
    * Who will be there from the docs community?
    * Would a translation sprint be feasible?

* Japanese translation

* How to get started?
    * Find a shortcoming & open an issue for it
    * Find an open issue & ask for help:
        * [Docs community issues](https://github.com/python/docs-community/issues)
        * [Python issues](https://github.com/python/cpython/labels/docs)

* Adding "how to teach this" section to PEPs
    * we don't update final PEPs
    * but, you can find the living docs (or create them) and improve that

* Daniele @ EuroPython
    * a workshop on docs organization at EuroPython
    * half hour of hacking on docs while people watch



## Next meeting

The docs team generally meets on the first Monday of every month.

We have a recurring Google Calendar event for the meeting.
Let Mariatta know your email address and she can invite you.
