# Documentation Community Team Meeting (August 2023)

- **Date:** 2023-08-01
- **Time:** [19:00 UTC](https://arewemeetingyet.com/UTC/2023-08-01/19:00/Docs%20Meeting)
- **This HackMD:** https://hackmd.io/@encukou/pydocswg1
- [**Discourse thread**](https://discuss.python.org/t/30549) (for August)
- [**Meeting reports**](https://docs-community.readthedocs.io/en/latest/monthly-meeting/index.html) (the latest one might be an [**unmerged PR**](https://github.com/python/docs-community/pulls))
- **Calendar event:** (send your e-mail to Mariatta for an invitation)
- **How to participate:**
  -  Go to [Google Meet](https://meet.google.com/dii-qrzf-wkw) and ask to be let in.
  -  To edit notes, click the “pencil” or “split view” button on the [HackMD document](https://hackmd.io/@encukou/pydocswg1). You need to log in (e.g. with a GitHub account).

By participating in this meeting, you are agreeing to abide by and uphold the [PSF Code of Conduct](https://www.python.org/psf/codeofconduct/).
Please take a second to read through it!


## Roll call

(Name / `@GitHubUsername` / Discord if different)
- Hugo van Kemenade  / `@hugovk`
- Daniele Procida
- Manuel Kaufmann / `@humitos`
- Ryan Duve / `@ryan-duve`
- C.A.M. Gerlach / `@CAM-Gerlach`
- Petr Viktorin / `@encukou`
- Marcus Sherman / `@betteridiot`
- Joe Kaufeld / `@itsthejoker`


## Reports and celebrations

- [PR to keep "translated" attribute on translated nodes](https://github.com/sphinx-doc/sphinx/pull/11502) landed and released! :tada:
    - https://github.com/python/docsbuild-scripts/issues/148#issuecomment-1648836409 has the details on how it's exposed!

- [Hugo] CPython sprint at EuroPython: we had one room for code and another for documentation, and merged some 140 PRs in total! Thanks to Daniele for helping out and all the excellent docs advice! (Photos: https://mastodon.social/@hugovk/110792652209141428)


## Discussion

- Should we set up [Trusted Publishers](https://docs.pypi.org/trusted-publishers/using-a-publisher/) on python-docs-theme?
  - Pradyun will file an issue

- [Hugo] Plausible trial update
  - Public Dashboard [link expired]
  - Would be too expensive to pay for hosted version
  - Should be easy to host it ourselves on PSF infra
  - Next step:
    - Ask PSF/Ee if we want to self-host, or pay for the service (or get sponsored)
    - Let the SC look at the dashboard

- [Hugo] Dark theme deploy: 3.11 RM Pablo said fine to deploy. To deploy, need to merge [python/docsbuild-scripts#161](https://github.com/python/docsbuild-scripts/pull/161) and/or pin in `requirements.txt`

- [CAM] Update on structured deprecation work
    - Originaly prompted by [a recent Discourse thread on soft deprecations](https://discuss.python.org/t/formalize-the-concept-of-soft-deprecation-dont-schedule-removal-in-pep-387-backwards-compatibility-policy/27957/73)
    - Went through many iterations of design and testing on examples
    - Wrote up a [detailed design doc](https://hackmd.io/@CAM-Gerlach/BJuLFRLj2) with:
        - Rationale and benefits
        - Phased implementation plan
        - Directive input schema
        - JSON, etc. output schema
        - Worked through examples
        - Open questions and additional notes
    - Initial implementation currently in progress; should have a final

- [Daniele] On-going documentation commit approaches
    - suggest changing approach to docs PRs
      - Often a PR will make docs look *worse* -- highlight what needs to be changed
      - docs no longer need to target only "graybeards", but also many new "non-programmers"
    - [CAM] Maybe also discussion of the [Porting Guide PR](https://github.com/python/cpython/pull/107434) as an application of this?
    - Maybe mark documents as historical?
    - Forward plan: Merge Daniele's PR and open an issue for a followup to remove/update more outdated content


## Next meeting

The docs team generally meets on the first Tuesday of every month.

We have a recurring Google Calendar event for the meeting. Let Mariatta know your email address and she can invite you.
