# Documentation Community Team Meeting (November 2024)

- **Date:** 2024-11-05
- **Time:** [20:00 UTC](https://arewemeetingyet.com/UTC/2024-11-05/20:00/Docs%20Meeting)
- **This HackMD:** <https://hackmd.io/@encukou/pydocswg1>
- [**Discourse thread**](https://discuss.python.org/t/documentation-community-meeting-tuesday-5th-november-2024/68579)
  (for November)
- [**Meeting reports**](https://docs-community.readthedocs.io/en/latest/monthly-meeting/)
  (the latest one might be an
  [**unmerged PR**](https://github.com/python/docs-community/pulls))
- **Calendar event:** (send your e-mail to Mariatta for an invitation)
- **How to participate:**
  - Go to [Google Meet](https://meet.google.com/dii-qrzf-wkw) and ask to be let in.
  - To edit notes, click the “pencil” or “split view” button on the
    [HackMD document](https://hackmd.io/@encukou/pydocswg1). You need to log in (e.g.
    with a GitHub account).

By participating in this meeting, you are agreeing to abide by and uphold the
[PSF Code of Conduct](https://www.python.org/psf/codeofconduct/). Please take a second
to read through it!

## Roll call

(Name / `@GitHubUsername` _[/ Discord, if different]_)

- Hugo van Kemenade / `@hugovk` 
- Mariatta
- Joe
- Ned Batchelder / `@nedbat`
- Trey
- Daniele
- Ryan / `@ryan-duve`
- Petr / `@encukou`

## Introductions

> If there are any new people, we should do a round of introductions.

## Discussion

## Discussion

- [Mariatta] Python Translation coordinators and their role within Core Python
  - translation coordinators are separate from core Python development
  - not considered for core sprint/language summit, unlike mypy, packaging, and so on
  - should work more closely with coordinators
  - considered as external group
  - Petr: English often used in Czechia
  - Mariatta: non-English needed outside Europe/North America, like in China
  - Daniele: give spaces/platform for their voices to be heard
  - Ned: was there a discussion about more fine-grained permissions? how many would it
    be that could join core team?
  - Mariatta: perhaps 10 with completed translations. other langs need support,
    motivation from other teams
  - Petr: which is hard; once you've learnt Eng need motivation to translate docs
  - Ned: what would help with motivation? would adding to core team help with
    motivation?
  - Daniele: we need to involve translators in this discussion, do they feel external,
    can we bring them in and ask what they want to do? then answers should just come
  - Daniele & Blaise mentioned Felienne Hermans who recently spoke at PyCon Netherlands
    about translating programming languages. Maybe a subset/niche community like that
    might have folks interested in helping.
  - Petr: there's a role we need to fill, like a coordinator like Julien used to do,
    with guidance, templates to help translate. we don't really know how to do it
  - Blaise: re: recognition, uncertainty around identity of a translator. docs people
    considered as contributors, should translators be part of a SIG?
  - Mariatta: from core team, don't need to wait for them to ask, we need to come up
    with initiative. people don't ask for recognition
  - Hugo: create translator team on GitHub python org? most permissions are prob dealt
    on per-repo basis, but if nothing else, for visibility to show usernames under
    `python/` on GitHub
  - Hugo: [PEP 545](https://peps.python.org/pep-0545/) is the governance general
    process,
    [devguide lists contacts](https://devguide.python.org/documentation/translating/)
  - Joe: no translation FAQ about machine translation, is there a policy?
  - Hugo: some teams use machine translation as first draft, human revises. seems
    reasonable
  -
- [Hugo] Move `python-docs-theme` under `cpython` PyPI org:
  <https://discuss.python.org/t/request-python-organisation-on-pypi/26545/10>
  - Petr: why not `python`?
  - Hugo: because if other projects use the theme, they're
    [borrowing trust and credibility from CPython](https://github.com/python/python-docs-theme).
    but let's bikeshed this elsewhere :)
- [Petr] Mariatta and Petr are current hosts who can let people into the meeting. Should
  we have more Google Meeting co-hosts to let more in?
  - Mariatta: Or use Discord instead?
  - Group decision: we'll test Discord next month
- [Carol] History of Dead Batteries page/approach
  <https://discuss.python.org/t/history-of-dead-batteries/68934>
  - Hugo: should we have stub pages?
  - Ned: yes, redirect them to a single page with info on replacements. before we got
    404, now we get redirect to homepage instead of 404, which bit less useful
  - Petr: also keep entries for removed functions/classes. better place for porting
    notes than in cramming in What's New.
- [Carol] API navigation or tables on long pages:
  <https://discuss.python.org/t/summary-tables-as-an-api-overview/68474>
  - [python/cpython#125810](https://github.com/python/cpython/pull/125810) ->
    [docs.python.org/3/library/math.html](https://docs.python.org/3/library/math.html)
  - [python/cpython#126342](https://github.com/python/cpython/pull/126342) ->
    [cpython-previews--126342.org.readthedocs.build/en/126342/library/pathlib.html#summary](https://cpython-previews--126342.org.readthedocs.build/en/126342/library/pathlib.html#summary)
  - ran out of time to cover this time, but please check the PRs!

## Next meeting

The docs team generally meets on the first Tuesday of every month around 20:00-ish UTC.

We have a recurring Google Calendar event for the meeting. Let Mariatta know your email
address and she can invite you.
