# Documentation Community Team Meeting (July 2024)

- **Date:** 2024-07-02
- **Time:** [19:00 UTC](https://arewemeetingyet.com/UTC/2024-07-02/19:00/Docs%20Meeting)
- **This HackMD:** [https://hackmd.io/@encukou/pydocswg1](https://hackmd.io/@encukou/pydocswg1)
- [**Discourse thread**](https://discuss.python.org/t/documentation-community-meeting-tuesday-2nd-july-2024/56629) (for July)
- [**Meeting reports**](https://docs-community.readthedocs.io/en/latest/monthly-meeting/) (the latest one might be an [**unmerged PR**](https://github.com/python/docs-community/pulls))
- **Calendar event:** (send your e-mail to Mariatta for an invitation)
- **How to participate:**
  -  Go to [Google Meet](https://meet.google.com/dii-qrzf-wkw) and ask to be let in.
  -  To edit notes, click the “pencil” or “split view” button on the [HackMD document](https://hackmd.io/@encukou/pydocswg1). You need to log in (e.g. with a GitHub account).

By participating in this meeting, you are agreeing to abide by and uphold the [PSF Code of Conduct](https://www.python.org/psf/codeofconduct/).
Please take a second to read through it!


## Roll call

(Name / `@GitHubUsername` *[/ Discord, if different]*)

- Daniele Procida `@danieleprocida`
- Carol / `@willingc`
- Ned Batchelder / `@nedbat`
- Ezio Melotti / `@ezio-melotti`
- Petr Viktorin / `@encukou`
- Jim DeLaHunt / `@JDLH`
- Ryan / `ryan-duve`
- Hugo van Kemenade / `@hugovk`
- Trey

## Introductions

> If there are any new people, we should do a round of introductions.



## Reports and celebrations

> 60 second updates on things you have been up to, questions you have, or developments you think people should know about. Please add yourself, and if you do not have an update to share, you can pass.

> This is a place to make announcements (without a need for discussion). This is also a great place to give shout-outs to contributors! We'll read through these at the beginning of the meeting.

- [Hugo] Plausible stats are live!
  [plausible.io/docs.python.org](https://plausible.io/docs.python.org) &
  [plausible.io/packaging.python.org](https://plausible.io/packaging.python.org)

- [Hugo] Sphinx meetup tomorrow at 20 UTC:
  [sphinx-doc/discussions/12443](https://github.com/orgs/sphinx-doc/discussions/12443#discussioncomment-9936592)

## Discussion

- [Daniele] Options for hosting a Python documentation sprint
  (Cardiff or London, possibly Netherlands)
  - Daniele ran a successful docs sprint @ DjangoCon.
    - People choose anything that bothers you in the docs, determine the rule it
      breaks, choose what you'd do right now to fix it. Daniele can "bless" the
      idea, or not; if blessed the person can work on it.
    - Some commits made it into the docs
  - Daniele can arrange a sprint in one of the 3 locations
  - [Ned] A sprint doesn't have to be a big formal thing; it can be a meetup
  - [Daniele] Some formal structure helped
  - [Ned] You don't need special permission
  - [Daniele] Would a core dev be interested in joining?
    - Possibly: Alex, Pradyun, Tania Allard, Petr
  - [Hugo] Last year Daniele led the workshop & Hugo was clicking the merge
    button at the sprint, worked very well
  - [Petr] worried about the conference helping to get people to the event
  - [Carol] The [packaging guide (Python Packaging User Guide)](https://packaging.python.org/en/latest/)
    could also use some work
  - [Ned] interested in the idea spreadsheet; maybe it can help even offline
  - [Carol] At last PyCon US, Shauna and Melanie tried to make their first docs
    PR, and found some issues in the onboarding process
    - Shauna: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1icjPpmEUH0BRPDwl7oXLkpasvwZoS5io2LyTEhblku0/edit
    - Melanie: https://docs.google.com/document/d/11zxisx5XfYOsrDOn4qd-XUSpDltIOi35qiOO9fDLfnI/edit

### Python Project Documentation

*Relating to `docs.python.org`, `peps.python.org`, `devguide.python.org`, etc.*

- [Ryan] I need to load JSON with NaN values.
  [The official documentation](https://docs.python.org/3/library/json.html#json.load) says:
  > **parse_constant**, if specified, will be called with one of the following strings:
  > `'-Infinity'`, `'Infinity'`, `'NaN'`. This can be used to raise an exception if
  invalid JSON numbers are encountered.
    - I could not tell how to use this, or even if it is what I needed, until I
      Googled it and
      [found this example on Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/a/62685520).
    - As a user, I intend to open a thread on Discourse before making a PR.  But
      is there a more open conversation we should have about examples within
      documentation for docs.python.org, first?
    - You don't need a discussion; file an issue and send a PR.

- [Hugo] Re: avoiding duplicate deprecations across What's New files:
  [Discourse](https://discuss.python.org/t/streamline-whats-new-by-moving-deprecations-and-removals-out-of-news/53997)
  - PR [python/cpython#121241](https://github.com/python/cpython/pull/121241)
    makes a start by moving pending removals from "What's New in 3.13" into
    includes

- [Petr] `.. versionadded:: next`:
  [python/cpython#121277](https://github.com/python/cpython/issues/121277)

- [Ned] Positional-only arguments:
  [python/cpython#121197](https://github.com/python/cpython/pull/121197)
    - What needs EB pronouncement
    - Can we help people understand terse punctuation?
      - add a tooltip? That won't work on mobile & screen readers
        - still better than nothing for non-mobile users
      - make it a link?
        - first make sure there's a good place to link to
      - make sure [searching for `/`](https://docs.python.org/3/search.html?q=%2F)
        gets you to the right place?
      - [Daniele] Documentation on how to read the documentation isn't good
  - Ned to write this down
      - PR: https://github.com/python/devguide/pull/1344

## Next meeting

The docs team generally meets on the first Tuesday of every month around 19:00-ish UTC.

We have a recurring Google Calendar event for the meeting.
Let Mariatta know your email address and she can invite you.
