# Documentation Community Team Meeting (February 2025)

- **Date:** 2025-02-04
- **Time:** [20:00 UTC](https://arewemeetingyet.com/UTC/2024-11-05/20:00/Docs20Meeting)
- **This HackMD:** <https://hackmd.io/@encukou/pydocswg1>
- [**Discourse thread**](https://discuss.python.org/t/documentation-community-meeting-tuesday-4th-february-2025/78750)
  (for February)
- [**Meeting reports**](https://docs-community.readthedocs.io/en/latest/monthly-meeting/)
  (the latest one might be an
  [**unmerged PR**](https://github.com/python/docs-community/pulls))
- **Calendar event:** (send your e-mail to Mariatta for an invitation)
- **How to participate:**
  - We are using Discord this time:
    <https://discord.gg/ER6Qtc92?event=1323719795702759545>
  - To edit notes, click the “pencil” or “split view” button on the
    [HackMD document](https://hackmd.io/@encukou/pydocswg1). You need to log in (e.g.
    with a GitHub account).

By participating in this meeting, you are agreeing to abide by and uphold the
[PSF Code of Conduct](https://www.python.org/psf/codeofconduct/). Please take a second
to read through it!

## Roll call

(Name / `@GitHubUsername` _[/ Discord, if different]_)

- Carol Willing / `@willingc`
- Petr Viktorin / `@encukou`
- Daniele
- Hugo van Kemenade / `@hugovk`
- Joe Kaufeld / `@itsthejoker`
- Keith
- Maciek Olko / `@m-aciek`
- Adam Turner / `@AA-Turner`
- Jeff Jacobson
- Blaise Pabon
- Stan / `@StanFromIreland`

## Introductions

> If there are any new people, we should do a round of introductions.

Introductions were made.

## Reports and celebrations

> 60 second updates on things you have been up to, questions you have, or developments
> you think people should know about. Please add yourself, and if you do not have an
> update to share, you can pass.

> This is a place to make announcements (without a need for discussion). This is also a
> great place to give shout-outs to contributors! We'll read through these at the
> beginning of the meeting.

- `python-docs-theme` 2025.2 was released today.
- We have narrowed supported Sphinx versions to only the latest; Sphinx 8.1.
  [cpython/python#125722](https://github.com/python/cpython/issues/125722)
- We have revived efforts to generate Open Graph Protocol images ('social card
  previews')
  [python/docsbuild-scripts#147](https://github.com/python/docsbuild-scripts/issues/147)
- Sphinx 8.2 (upcoming) will support a `:py:deco:` cross-reference role. Thanks to
  Erlend Aasland and Alex Waygood for discussion
  [sphinx-doc/sphinx#13105](https://github.com/sphinx-doc/sphinx/issues/13105).
- Translation progress since 14 December 2024:
  - zh-cn: 79.46% -> 80.64%
  - es: 62.38% -> 63.28%
  - pt-br: 53.79% -> 58.24%
  - zh-tw: 36.62% -> 37.00%
  - pl: 8.24% -> 9.44%
  - gr: 4.62% -> 4.83%
  - (please note that as of now completion tracking bases on paragraphs number, not
    [words](https://github.com/izimobil/polib/pull/166) number, and may not express the
    translation effort precisely)
  - [source](https://github.com/m-aciek/pydocs-translation-dashboard/compare/f015a5c401118514c12ae4c75328a201a46171c5...gh-pages)

## Discussion

- The [Python Wiki](https://wiki.python.org/moin/Documentation) has a great deal of
  information, but much of it is badly outdated. For documentation-related pages,
  perhaps we ought remove these and redirect readers to d.p.o?
  - [Hugo] This came up recently. Marc-André was keen on keeping the wiki around. See
    <https://discuss.python.org/t/remove-the-link-to-the-old-python-wiki/45316/13>
  - [Carol] Would love to see the wiki go away completely. First, we should go through
    the d.p.o docs and remove references to the wiki. There's a lot of out-of-date
    stuff, and it's very confusing.
  - [Hugo] There are 22 instances of `wiki.python` in the docs.
  - People might be against deleting stuff.
  - Wikis are useful when they're kept outdated. This one isn't.
  - [Daniele] We have the same problem at work; people don't want to throw it away but
    it's mostly garbage and no one wants to go through it and make it better.
  - [Joe] Would it be useful to add a banner that explicitly says it's unmaintained?
  - [Adam] There are some pages that are actively maintained. We can change it, but it's
    onerous to make edits. Don't know how to get history or get the content.
  - [Carol] I still think I have wiki access. After we get the links out of d.p.o, maybe
    we can go through the wiki, search for CPython and replace the info with links to
    docs. It's a heavy lift to get rid of it.
- There has been a long discussion on syntax and style for describing Python types in
  documentation, primarily taking place in the comments of a merged PR(!) in the Sphinx
  repository [sphinx-doc/sphinx#13242](https://github.com/sphinx-doc/sphinx/pull/13242).
  Do we wish to take a view here?
  - [Adam] In our docs, we can mark up types as static annotations in Python, or
    describe them in prose. Which do we want to standardize on? This was already
    discussed; are there any strong opinions we could take to the EB?
  - [Carol] Adam will go to the next EB meeting and hopefully it'll get resolved.
- Request for comment: how best to present abstract methods and classes? See
  [sphinx-doc/sphinx#13271](https://github.com/sphinx-doc/sphinx/pull/13271). Options:
  - _`abstractmethod`_` write()`
  - _`abstract method`_` write()`
  - _`abstract`_` write()`
  * [Petr] Would it be possible to link that word to the glossary? (yes, we could)
- Request for comment: how tightly should we draw the distinction between 'async',
  'awaitable', and 'coroutine' callables? Note that Python's documentation currently
  uses the latter two forms, but Sphinx only (currently) supports the former.
  - [`:async:` option](https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/usage/domains/python.html#directive-option-py-function-async)
    (Sphinx)
  - coro example:
    [`asyncio.sleep`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/asyncio-task.html#asyncio.sleep)
  - awaitable example:
    [`asyncio.gather`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/asyncio-task.html#asyncio.gather)
  * [Petr] the distinction is confusing; ideally they should be made equivalent. But as
    long as they're different, the docs should be precise

### Python Project Documentation

_Relating to `docs.python.org`, `peps.python.org`, `devguide.python.org`, etc._

- [bswck] Track upstream->downstream translation block update alerts

  - Not discussed.

- [Hugo] The availability directives are like:
  `.. availability:: Linux >= 2.6.27 with glibc >= 2.8`. Should we automatically replace
  ">=" with "≥", or rewrite as "version 2.8 or later" per Google, Microsoft and Apple
  style guides?
  [python/cpython#129597 (comment)](https://github.com/python/cpython/pull/129597#discussion_r1939080570)

  - [Petr] I'd keep the directives compact; they're not prose
  - [Joe] I'd use the single symbol
  - [Joe] The Unicode symbol was introduced in 1993, hopefully it renders well on near
    anything
  - [Petr] If there's an issue with Unicode in some of the backends, we should fix that

- [Hugo] Links back to homepage:
  [python/python-docs-theme#217](https://github.com/python/python-docs-theme/issues/217)

  - [Adam] PEPs have a link to both python.org and peps.python.org. It's probably best
    to have both links. If I'd have to choose, I'd have the icon either unlinked or go
    to `docs.`.
  - [Petr] I'd rather have the link go to docs.python.org. It'd be more useful to folks
    who are visiting for the first time, and then have the docs homepage itself have a
    link to the standard python.org.

- [Maciek] Moving into the inside of the Python GitHub organization

  - Python Docs Translation Dashboard repository?
  - Transifex automation repository?
  - or should we add a new organization for the around-translations-efforts?
  - [Petr] I recommend a new organization, where you're an admin and can set it up
    however you want
  - [Repo policy](https://devguide.python.org/developer-workflow/development-cycle/#organization-repository-policy)
  - [Adam] This could live under `python`, the question is if it's a good idea. It might
    make it easier to maintain.
  - [Adam] For the dashboard, eventually we could move it to a folder in the
    docsbuild-scripts repo.
  - [Carol] I like both options, but note that we can always move repos from a
    translations organization to `python`
  - [Hugo] We might want to add the dashboard directly to the devguide. Maybe by having
    it generate a JSON file that devguide consumes?
  - [maciek] An organization is good for discoverability, and for shared maintenance in
    case the original maintainer steps down.
  - [Adam] Could we create a python-translations organization right now?
    ([yes](https://github.com/python-docs-translations))
  - [Adam] Is the devguide the best place for the dashboard? Maybe we should have the
    dashboard on docs.python.org somewhere

- [Maciek] Is displaying number of Sphinx build warnings in scope of Python Docs
  Translation Dashboard
  [dashboard#45](https://github.com/python-docs-translations/dashboard/pull/45)
  - [Hugo] Would it be useful to you as a translator? (yes)
  - [Adam] We don't use nitpicky mode currently. Instinctively, going to the level of
    sphinx warnings is a bit much.
  - [Maciek] It could be a motivation for potential contributors.

## Next meeting

The docs team generally meets on the first Tuesday of every month around 20:00-ish UTC.

We have a recurring Google Calendar event for the meeting. Let Mariatta know your email
address and she can invite you.
