# Documentation Community Team Meeting (August 5, 2025)

## Roll call

(Name / `@GitHubUsername` _[/ Discord, if different]_)

- Hugo van Kemenade / `@hugovk`
- Ryan Duve / `@ryan-duve`
- Petr Viktorin / `@encukou`
- Daniele Procida / `@evildmp`
- Keith Murray / `@KeithTheEE`
- Adam Turner / `@AA-Turner`
- Trey Hunner / `@treyhunner`
- Blaise Pabon / `@blaisep` / `@controlpl4n3`
- Ned Batchelder / `@nedbat`

## Reports and celebrations

> 60 second updates on things you have been up to, questions you have, or developments
> you think people should know about. Please add yourself, and if you do not have an
> update to share, you can pass.

> This is a place to make announcements (without a need for discussion). This is also a
> great place to give shout-outs to contributors! We'll read through these at the
> beginning of the meeting.

- July follow-ups:
  - [python/cpython#137131](https://github.com/python/cpython/pull/137131) (_Link to
    plaintext for "show source" links_, by Ryan Duve)
  - [python/cpython#136246](https://github.com/python/cpython/pull/136246) (_Docs: a
    start on an 'improve this page' feature_, by Ned Batchelder)
  - t-string documentation:
    [`string.templatelib` — Support for template string literals](https://docs.python.org/dev/library/string.templatelib.html),
    [template string literal syntax](https://docs.python.org/dev/reference/lexical_analysis.html#t-strings)
- EuroPython documentation sprints were a success: many new contributors and many new
  PRs
- PyCon UK sprints
  - Daniele, Hugo, and Adam hope to be there
- Hugo: We'll alternate meeting times each month to better accommodate people in
  different time zones: even months at the "old" later time, and odd months three hours
  earlier. Let's keep the DST adjustment as before, and try this out until the end of
  the year to see how it goes.

## Discussion

- [Trey] Future topic: merge documentation earlier, at the same time or before code?
- Hugo: Sebastián Ramírez suggested Documentation Driven Development.

### Topic

- [Ellipsis documentation](https://discuss.python.org/t/99481)

  - Should we keep it short and technical (Ellipsis is just an object), or should it
    explain how people use it and give examples?

  - Trey: The documentation should ideally give examples of usage. But not too much
    elaboration.
  - Ned: Use in place of `pass` -- we could just use '17'
  - Daniele: didn't realise that `...` was an object; had always seen it as English
    prose.
  - Ned/Trey: the three dots are used for lots of things! We could mention that '...' is
    used for many things, for example, also in doctest, recursive object
    representations, and so on.
  - Adam/Ned: Come up with a rubric that can guide us in future topics, rather than
    specifically about Ellipsis.
  - Trey: idioms & colloquialisms are more missing than he'd like, for example, dunder
    not much use.
  - Hugo: We recently added ~~'Walrus'~~ 'f-string'!
  - Petr: Note that 'idioms' aren't dictated by the language
  - see this note on `_` for prior art:
    <https://docs.python.org/3/reference/lexical_analysis.html#reserved-classes-of-identifiers>

- Traffic and AI search behaviour - follow up on
  [Discord discussion](https://discord.com/channels/935215565872693329/1009192183137566874/1390065560091496499):
  is there evidence that search engines' AI summaries are intercepting users that would
  otherwise reach the documentation?

  - Seeing a collapse in traffic to technical content.
  - <https://analytics.python.org/docs.python.org?period=all&keybindHint=A>
  - Ned: Frequently asks Claude instead of using documentation
  - Used when unclear what the solution is / what documentation to use
  - Skipping the search engine entirely
  - Daniele: Does this matter? Should we care? Ned: If it did, what would we do? We're
    not going to take down docs.python.org
  - Daniele: If people aren't even going to docs.python.org, they don't realise who is
    behind the software/documentation. Impact on resourcing for PSF? Like turning on the
    tap, you don't consider where water comes from.
  - Improving documentation might improve LLM results?
  - Do LLMs 'prefer' docs.python.org?
  - Keith: In time, will we see greater use of documentation as more people will be
    building things that are too complex for LLMs?

- Support for non-HTML formats: _Should we bother?_.

  - Adam: Builds for PDF/LaTeX/EPUB/Text/Texinfo were unintentionally not working for
    all of May-July. We had minimal complaints, is it worth keeping these formats?
  - Hugo: Some complaints re: EPUB
  - Adam: Perhaps we could just drop PDF? It takes the vast majority of the resources.
  - Followup: <https://discuss.python.org/t/101343/>

- Transifex mis-propagation -- review / lessons learnt.
  - we have a suite of software to sync translations, which had a bad bug. The people
    who know more are not at the meeting.
- Splitting stdtypes, functions, and so on.
  - they're currently big monoliths. Should we consider splitting them? How do we split
    them? One page per type? One page per group of methods?
  - The current state hurts SEO; splitting might hurt Ctrl+F.
  - We need some sort of plan/information architecture.
- Concurrency HOWTO ([Eric's PR](https://github.com/python/cpython/pull/123163))

  - Trey: excited to see PR.

- Next month's meeting: 3 hours earlier, at 16:00 UTC.
