# Documentation Community Team Meeting (November 4, 2025)

## Roll call

(Name / `@GitHubUsername` _[/ Discord, if different]_)

- Hugo van Kemenade / `@hugovk`
- Adam Turner / `@AA-Turner`
- Ned Batchelder / `@nedbat`
- Nathan Goldblum / `@ngoldblum`
- Blaise Pabon / `@blaisep` / `controlpl4n3`
- Ryan Duve / `@ryan-duve`

## Introductions

> If there are any new people, we should do a round of introductions.

We had a round.

## Reports and celebrations

None this time.

## Discussion

- [Lysandros/Nathan] CPython free-threading (FT) docs
  - https://py-free-threading.github.io
  - [gh-137232: Update free-threading HOWTOs with up-to-date info for 3.14](https://github.com/python/cpython/pull/140817)
  - [gh-140374: Add glossary entries related to multithreading](https://github.com/python/cpython/pull/140375)
  - [Quansight-Labs/free-threaded-compatibility#261](https://github.com/Quansight-Labs/free-threaded-compatibility/issues/261)
  - Nathan:
  - Lys is concentrating on improving CPython docs for FT, unfortunately couldn't attend
    this meeting due to a conflict
  - Steering Council said let's make https://py-free-threading.github.io part of
    docs.python.org as a subdomain
  - A big new batch of docs by the FT team was
    [recently relicensed](https://github.com/Quansight-Labs/free-threaded-compatibility/issues/249#issuecomment-3221471102)
    from MIT to 0BSD + MIT so can upstream to CPython docs
  - Uses MKDocs
  - Feedback from Sam Gross and Thomas Wouters: would be best to avoid making huge
    changes to existing docs
  - But what is as minimal as possible?
  - Feedback from docs editorial team: keep in own page
  - Have already made PRs to improve glossary, how-tos, and more upstreamed from FT
    guide
  - want clarity on how to move forward
  - The plan is in
    [Quansight-Labs/free-threaded-compatibility#261](https://github.com/Quansight-Labs/free-threaded-compatibility/issues/261)
  - Adam: would like to avoid glossary being general programming resource
  - Nathan: good feedback, if entries need to exist, it's because of CPython's needs
  - Ned: not so convinced if they should only relate to Python, it's a difficult
    balance. Now we're looking through that lense, how many other entries would be
    excluded with that rule?
  - Adam: There was a general discussion on this topic at the Cambridge core sprint, no
    actions created. How tight do we make the FT docs its own area vs. putting them
    throughout general docs? For example, do we add notes on `list` about being atomic
    in stdtypes, or have an FT reference section somewhere with all the common container
    considerations? The latter was preferred. Is it realistic to put all the relevant
    concerns on a single page?
  - Nathan: the next big task for Lys is to look at the big types and work out safety
    guarantees. For example, it's not safe to share iterators across threads, and
    memoryviews have considerations. Need to list them somewhere. `list` and `dict` will
    be pretty straightforward, atomic for the most part. Others will be complicated. It
    depends on how much there is to say for each. Some things are ready for 3.15, but
    weren't for 3.14. At least for builtins, we'll write this down in a big table, then
    it'll be easier to figure out how to integrate it.
  - Adam: yes, this will help. Also a difference between thread-safety concerns in the
    abstract, and relating to free-threading. For example, sharing data structure
    between threads, already concerns in older versions. How do we document thread
    safety with a nod to FT, and not cluttering things up? Many programmers will only
    use single-threaded. We'll want to point them to higher abstract things.
  - Nathan: should document, people should assume types are not safe to share between
    threads. `list`/`dict` being atomic should be clearly documented. Per-module docs
    can help a lot, if we can add a FT section. Matthias Bussonnier is looking to
    improve ecosystem docs, for example, NumPy docs need an FT section. Need to figure
    out where to draw line.
  - Ned: not sure about regular thread-safety section, as Adam mentioned, tends to be an
    advanced topic and for most part you don't need to worry about it. For example,
    `list` could say threads are atomic, see elsewhere for more about this. Otherwise
    spread throughout docs seems a bit lopsided. We've been fixing flaws in the
    language, but doesn't need to be top of mind for most readers. For example, we don't
    say list access is _O_(1) and so on. People say that's an implementation detail. FT
    is also an implementation detail.
  - Nathan: the broader point is how to doc implementation details. Will try and make
    minimal changes to docs, but add when thread-safe or not. How would readers get to a
    thread-safety page? How to get from stdlib module pages? Are there links?
  - Ned: seems reasonable to have links sprinkled throughout docs to main page. "Are you
    using FT? Go here".
  - Adam: we have availability notes ;ole "availability: Unix, not WASI". could do
    similar for FT. The concern is how far up the discoverability chain do we put it. A
    12-year-old reading `list` docs don't need to know about thread safety, an advanced
    programmer might. Should be aiming so using Python just works, keep simple things
    easy. Only when run into something complex do you need to go to thread-safety
    guarantees. So a link for every type with a tick or cross is an antipattern. I think
    this touches on the py-free-threading guide, I don't think it should exist, it would
    be a shame to bifurcate the docs like that. Advanced topics should be in the main
    docs. Would rather make its way into main docs. The FT tracker is probably right to
    stay external, don't need to upstream everything.
  - Adam: want advanced docs there if needed, but don't want to scare people with
    thread-safety warnings everywhere if not needed. Can mention `list`/`dict` are safe.
    Extensions should have a statement like: "assume not thread-safety".
  - Nathan: idea: maybe a data model page, like Java, that goes over things like
    thread-safety, and thinking about threading in Python.
  - Ned: How to find it?
  - Adam: Reasonable idea. Having more reference docs. Too much runtime init/model stuff
    are in C API docs and should be moved to the main reference. What are
    language/implementation guarantees? Docs about model seems reasonable. Once written,
    getting it in front of people is easier, when it exists. SEO will help.
  - Nathan: Will start linking when it exists.
  - Ned: Get the words written, then we can move and improve. Does Python have a crisp
    data model page, when we have 30 years of organic growth?
  - Nathan: Java went the other way. No draft yet of the page. Lys is working on
    overview of all builtins, which will inform this. We have
    https://docs.python.org/3/reference/datamodel.html but it's out of date, mentions
    GIL, some stuff is wrong. Will need to fix it as part of this.
  - Ned: and it's too long.
  - Adam: skimming current FT guide, maybe about half make sense to upstream. Definitely
    porting guide, and subinterpreters/
  - Nathan: and Cython and pybind11?
  - Adam: for C API. Good to upstream frequently seen errors.
  - Nathan: Almost all is ecosystem docs. Would be helpful to link to Cython docs on
    this and the others from CPython docs.
  - Adam: willing to link externally.
  - Ned: if upstreamed, do we still need a separate guide?
  - Nathan: yes, because a lot is needed for details about Cython or PY03 etc. many
    building via bindings generators and not C API directly.
  - Ned: willing to upstream for the C API. Would we insist on this, or better to have
    in one place if it only applies to C API?
  - Nathan: the existing porting guide is pretty good, already upstreamed what makes
    sense. Maybe need general considerations, content not necessarily about C API, and
    extensions in general, what to avoid, using critical section, so you understand what
    it means. Some level of CPython docs for extension authors, doesn't need to go into
    details about generators or C API.
  - Adam: if FT becomes default, what's the situation then? Would we still want a
    py-free-threading guide? We've not really done this for other language features. As
    a transition thing, it's a really good resource. but for a 10-year perspective,
    wouldn't I want to reach for projects' own docs first? And C API docs directly?
  - Nathan: the relevant stuff should be in the CPython docs. Would be good to have
    https://py-free-threading.github.io/porting-extensions/#working-with-the-free-threaded-cpython-interpreter-runtime
    in docs: detaching/attaching/GIL stuff. How to think about blocking calls, deadlock
    with interpreter, general content about how to work with C API but it's for all
    extension authors. All can link to these docs.
  - Adam: for consumers of C API. have you spoken to C API WG?
  - Nathan: not about docs. thread-safety notes about C API is less pressing than for
    notes that more will see. what's your take on thread-safety to C API docs?
  - Adam: important, but less interested personally. Petr is expert here. can ask when
    Petr and Lys both present next time.
  - Nathan: can convert to Sphinx if needed when upstreaming.
  - Blaise: Petr has a weekly stream working on the grammar docs, can also do office
    hours stuff. No need to wait until next month's meeting. The event in this Discord,
    welcome to drop in.
  - Nathan: we want more eyes on this stuff. Would be helpful if you can chime in on the
    tracking issue above. More expert eyes on the docs before upstreaming will help.
    More about improving CPython docs than porting the whole thing over and overwhelming
    a 12-year-old. Better to document the positive things, can also mention some
    here-be-dragons.
  - Ned: current docs aren't great at dealing with the implementation specific aspect,
    so maybe we'll flex those muscles getting these in.
  - Nathan: find a way to doc implementation details, subject to change, so people don't
    rely on them.
  - Ned: we have some, but in weird corners.
  - Adam: don't have a policy.

---

- [Ned] See https://github.com/python/devguide/pull/1679 PR on use of AI, in case want
  to chime in

---

- [Blaise] tutorials: has there been a discussion on learning objectives for different
  scenarios.
- Ned: it's difficult to speak with one voice, users so diverse. So many paths.
