# Documentation Community Team Meeting (March 2025)

- **Date:** 2025-03-04
- **Time:** [20:00 UTC](https://arewemeetingyet.com/UTC/2025-03-04/20:00/Docs%20Meeting)
- **This HackMD:** <https://hackmd.io/@encukou/pydocswg1>
- [**Discourse thread**](https://discuss.python.org/t/documentation-community-meeting-tuesday-4th-march-2025/82201)
  (for March)
- [**Meeting reports**](https://docs-community.readthedocs.io/en/latest/monthly-meeting/)
  (the latest one might be an
  [**unmerged PR**](https://github.com/python/docs-community/pulls))
- **Calendar event:** (send your e-mail to Mariatta for an invitation)
- **How to participate:**
  - We are using Discord this time:
    <https://discord.gg/fbCgH3hF?event=1338927163885359214>
  - To edit notes, click the ‚Äúpencil‚Äù or ‚Äúsplit view‚Äù button on the
    [HackMD document](https://hackmd.io/@encukou/pydocswg1). You need to log in (for
    example, with a GitHub account).

By participating in this meeting, you are agreeing to abide by and uphold the
[PSF Code of Conduct](https://www.python.org/psf/codeofconduct/). Please take a second
to read through it!

## Roll call

(Name / `@GitHubUsername` _[/ Discord, if different]_)

- Carol
- Maciek
- Petr Viktorin / `@encukou`
- Hugo van Kemenade / `@hugovk`
- Keith / `@KeithTheEE`
- Jeff
- Ryan Duve / `@ryan-duve`

## Introductions

> If there are any new people, we should do a round of introductions.

None this time.

## Reports and celebrations

> 60 second updates on things you have been up to, questions you have, or developments
> you think people should know about. Please add yourself, and if you do not have an
> update to share, you can pass.

> This is a place to make announcements (without a need for discussion). This is also a
> great place to give shout-outs to contributors! We'll read through these at the
> beginning of the meeting.

- [Hugo] New translations:
  - A new Romanian translation has been started and they're looking to build the team.
    Spread the word! [octaG-M/Python-in-ro](https://github.com/octaG-M/Python-in-ro)
  - Persian is being restarted:
    [revisto/python-docs-fa](https://github.com/revisto/python-docs-fa)
  - And we have a volunteer to pick up Bengali
- Sphinx 8.2 released üéâ
  [changelog](https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/changes/8.2.html)
- [Maciek] Translations progress (30 days):
  - zh-cn: 0.6%
  - es: 0.1%
  - pt-br: 1.53%
  - uk: 0.09%
  - zh-tw: 0.73%
  - pl: 1.83%
  - gr (el): 1.58%
  - We now show last 30 days progress on the dashboard (kudos to Stan).

## Discussion

- [Hugo] wiki.python.org

  - Elena from Australia has been finding important info in the wiki, focused on
    communities. Keith is interested in education & outreach.
  - [Keith] There are multiple groups who decided recently that something should happen
    to the wiki. It would be nice to organize that, and part of that is understanding
    the scope.
  - What is the relationship between the docs & the wiki?
  - [Hugo] The old info is not useful, but people are still updating the wiki and adding
    useful info.
  - Info in the docs should not be duplicated in the wiki. We should avoid linking to
    the wiki; if we do link we should be explicit that this is a community-maintained
    wiki.
  - [Carol] I know that some people like the wiki, but it's not a good place for project
    documentation.
  - [Keith] From the education & outreach perspective & former Python subredditor &
    Python Discord mod: people who find the wiki very quickly get to outdated
    information. We want to change that.
  - Moving wiki to Git is an interesting idea, but takes a lot of work. If we start
    updating, people will start saying ‚Äúmy resource should be here too‚Äù
  - [Carol] audited the python.org & links two levels from Documentation, made sure
    links to official docs are first, then educational resources, then the wiki. It
    shouldn't be the first place people go to for information.
  - [Keith] Is the audit publicly available? What is a good format to make an audit, so
    we can share actionable information?
  - [Carol] can share that with Keith & Elena
  - [Keith] What's a good format? How do we avoid duplicating work and move to some
    version of ‚Äúbetter‚Äù?
  - [Carol] Start at the homepage, see where the links lead
  - From the history, it's best to approach it as an external resource. That is in some
    ways how it's been managed. From an education point of view, it would be good to get
    the homepage to the point where it would be good for new contributors.
  - [Maciek] On Wikipedia, they use bots to add ‚Äúthis is outdated‚Äù banners. Should we
    try to do that? Add banners for up-to-date content, redirects to newer resources for
    outdated info?
  - [Hugo] The wiki will be updated to new MoinMoin soon, let's not do automation now.
  - Some news sites have also been adding banners for older articles.
  - [Keith] How would you define wiki content that should be moved to docs.python.org?
  - [Hugo] d.p.o is mainly focused on the tutorial and reference guide; it should fit
    there.
  - [Carol] Historical information -- something Guido or Barry wrote early on to give
    context -- we should move that as well. Perhaps not to docs.python.org, but
    somewhere else under python.org.
  - [Ryan] Di√°taxis says what should go in docs; if it's not in one of the categories it
    should not go in docs.
  - [Keith] Lots of good things to talk about; I don't know what my conclusion will be
  - [Carol] It would be great if the Education & Outreach Workgroup makes a landing
    page, perhaps with content from the wiki.
  - [Keith] That's the end goal

- [Hugo] Any news from the EB?

  - [Carol] They have met, I've missed a few meetings. Will meet next week, maybe we can
    put something public up. There are plans to audit of some of the docs.

- [Hugo] We're using the latest version of Sphinx for latest version of the docs and the
  bugfix versions. Previously we limited this to what various distributors use. That
  also means that if we need something new in the docs, we can add it to Sphinx
  relatively quickly.

- [Maciek] Translation dashboard: we started to track the change in last 30 days; it's
  shown with a different colour.

  - Sphinx build warnings and lint errors are in progress.

- [Hugo] Ryan, you made some PRs, are they getting reviews?
  - [Ryan] Going great!

## Next meeting

The docs team generally meets on the first Tuesday of every month around 20:00-ish UTC.

We have a recurring Google Calendar event for the meeting. Let Mariatta know your email
address and she can invite you.
