# Documentation Community Team Meeting (June 2, 2026)

## Roll call

(Name / `@GitHubUsername` *[/ Discord, if different]*)

- Ned Batchelder / `@nedbat`
- Blaise / `@blaisep` / `@controlpl4n3`
- Stan / `@StanFromIreland`
- Hugo van Kemenade / `@hugovk`
- Daniele / `@EvilDMP`
- Stephen Rosen / `@sirosen`
- Nathan J. Goldbaum / `@ngoldbaum`
- Trey Hunner / `@treyhunner`


## Introductions

Several new attendees were present, and a round of introductions was made.


## Reports and celebrations

- [Blaise] It's good to see Stephen Rosen here. He has a lot to contribute.


## Discussion

- [Nathan] C-API thread-safety annotations are mostly complete. What should be
  tackled next? Should we focus on a free-threading HOWTO or
  on adding free-threading annotations to individual types?
  There is an overall tracking issue for this: [python/cpython#145912](https://github.com/python/cpython/issues/145912)
  - [Ned] Are the guidelines for the thread-safety docs documented anywhere?
  - [Nathan] The effort follows documented guiding principles which can be
    found in the [Python Free-Threading Guide](https://py-free-threading.github.io/documentation-principles).
  - **Summary**: There was consensus that the HOWTO is the priority because it
    will help more users, especially beginners.

- [Ryan] [Discord #introductions](https://discord.com/channels/935215565872693329/1159234243541618708) Meet-and-greet Review.
  - Ryan was unfortunately not present at this meeting and, as such, was unable
    to give us an update. This was postponed to next month.
  - [Ned] Gave an overview of the initial plan. Ryan was to personally message
    everyone who joined the Docs Community Discord to see what they are looking
    for when they join, what they are interested in and what help they need.

- [Ned] Sphinx maintenance: is it being kept up well?
  Some concerned people recently opened an issue: [python/docs-community#192](https://github.com/python/docs-community/issues/192)
  Does the Sphinx project have enough calories to keep
  going? While Adam has confirmed the project is not dead, there has been little
  activity and no commits this year. These concerns have also been echoed in various
   places, including the Write The Docs community. The lead maintainers currently
  have little time for the project. How can we help them?
  - [Hugo] Will ping Adam and Bénédikt in the Discord to see what help they need.
  - [Daniele] Will ask around at work for people who might be interested.
  - [Nathan] Will ask around at Quansight.
  - [Blaise] Hugo notes that he has an open PR
    ([sphinx-doc/sphinx#14416](https://github.com/sphinx-doc/sphinx/pull/14416))
    to fix the issues stopping us from using the latest Sphinx version for the
    Python documentation.

- [Blaise] Any suggestions for how to onboard more Sphinx maintainers?
  (for example, the Write The Docs folks and potentially Daniele and Nathan's
  colleagues).
  - Should we add another day/session like our Wednesday session for the docs?
    We could use [Hugo's Chinese Stemmer PR](https://github.com/sphinx-doc/sphinx/pull/14416)
    as a possible topic to work on? (Idea withdrawn after further discussion,
    no attendees have merge permissions in the Sphinx repository.)

- [Stan] Petr and I recently discussed what to do with the Discord events
  for these monthly meetings in the `#discord` channel. These events have to be
  updated manually. This was recently not done, leading to confusion and people
  missing meetings. Does anyone here still rely on the Discord event
  for these meetings?
  - [Hugo] We also now have an <a href="/docs-community-meetings.ics">iCalendar</a>
    with the upcoming monthly meeting dates and times.
  - [Everyone] No.
